welcome to your brothers and sisters to our
third class from the change of heart series
and after dedicating two weeks
introducing this topic and building a case for
it building momentum i think the time has
finally come for us
to start our long journey with the actions
of the hearts
and we will begin tonight with the greatest
of them all if allah wills
using just two arabic words summarized one of
the most important
qualities in the life of a muslim which
in its absence paradise is an impossibility
that's the paradise of dunya before the hereafter
what were those two summarized words
they are when allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala said yuri
na they intend his face
they meaning the believers they desire his face
meaning the face of allah alohu they are
people of ichla's
sincerity they are people who didn't look for
gratitude from people they never stared into the
pockets of others
they never longed or aspired for people's possessions
attention praise gratitude
because they were as allah described yuri luna
who they only desired his face so all
eyes were on him and what is amazing
is that this topic of
sincerity and i add a caveat here right
from the outset that makes something very clear
i am not an authority for a split
second
to be speaking about this topic of islas
buckle up brothers and sisters sit tight
because any time the topic of ichlas is
discussed realize you're about to ascend a huge
mountain
you're about to ascend heights and what is
even more interesting is that these predecessors
the way they approached this topic of ikhlas
wasn't necessarily a theoretical one so it wasn't
about lectures they had
when it came to sincerity it wasn't a
book that they would read
memorize regurgitate lecture style it wasn't something that
they would
study in a classroom setting ichlas was for
them living breathing
talking reality ichlas was like an entity that
they could hear talk see smell touch
that's how they approached this topic it hurt
them it wounded them
it snapped them back to reality when they
would discuss the topic of a class some
of them would weep
some of them would even lose consciousness and
let us begin perhaps with the most
powerful narration in this department which muslim narrates
on the authority of
suffering who said that i made my way
to the city of medina
i entered the masjid masjidu nabawi and i
saw that people were gathered around a particular
man they were
learning from him and so i asked who
is that who is that man they said
that is
that is good companionship to bop into on
on a rainy day he said so he
went to the gathering he sat in
the in the gathering of knowledge and he
said i made sure i sit right in
front of him and i was getting closer
and closer as
he was talking by the time he'd finished
and everyone had left it was just me
and abu hurairah in the masjid of the
prophet
so i came to him and i said
yeah
i ask you with the fullness of my
heart that you narrate to me something you
heard directly from the prophet muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam hadith that you learnt and
fully understood
who said to him i will do just
that i'm about to narrate you a narration
that i heard directly from the mouth of
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam which i understood
and fully comprehended
the narrator he said then
became irregular see these narrations about ikhlas brothers
and sisters it physiologically affected them
it affected their blood flow it affected their
their their nervous system
it affected their the pumping of the blood
in their heart look a physiological change he
said his
breathing became irregular so we waited for a
moment we gave him some space until he
regained awareness
and he said now i will narrate you
a hadith that i heard from the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam that i learned from him
and i fully
comprehended the narrator yeah he said once again
his breathing became irregular he was unable to
talk
and at this moment he was he was
passing his hand over his face he was
really struggling like he's about to black out
and then we waited for a moment we
gave him his space that he became a
right then he said i'm going to narrate
to you a hadith i
heard from the prophet sallallahu alaihi he can't
get it out see this is the difference
between the sahabah see these were the hearts
that
received revelation so soft so receptive so interactive
with the information they
were receiving i will tell you the hadith
i heard it from him and i fully
understood it suffered he said then abu hurairah
passed out his body couldn't carry him anymore
he said so i picked him up
i helped him kneel and we were or
lean on to me we were carrying him
he regained consciousness
and then he said the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam said to me listen to the hadith
that he was
struggling to bring in allah
he said on the day of judgment allah
will descend to settle the scores once and
for all
between people and judge between them and during
that time every nation will be on its
knees
and then the very first people who will
be called to stand in the court of
allah will be a man jama al-quran who
had
amassed the quran memorized it recited it the
very first to experience the reckoning from the
billions half of the
quran the second rajulun a person who was
killed in the path of allah shaheed
in jihad a person who had a lot
of money
all of the nations are watching this is
how it begins before the kuffar and the
it begins with them
did i not give you knowledge of what
i had sent to my messenger sallallahu alaihi
wasallam the man will say yes o my
lord allah will say to him so what
did you do with that knowledge the reckoning
has started the man will say
i you speak a lie
and the angels will say that you speak
a lie then allah will say to him
you only recite quran
you only did that so that people say
what a good reciter he is and that
is exactly what people said
you wanted dunya you wanted praise i gave
you what you wanted today in the hereafter
you have nothing with allah
then allah will summon the second this is
a man who was killed in the path
of allah imagine jihad and then fighting and
then dying in the cause of allah
supposedly allah will say to him what did
you do with your life the man will
say
i was instructed to carry out jihad when
i was alive and so i did it
and i fought and i died in your
path oh allah allah
will say you're a liar and the angels
will say you're a liar you did that
so that people say
you're a brave man and that was said
then the third one will be brought who
was he the one whom allah had given
a lot of money
allah will say to him did i not
give you so much money such
that you never needed a favor from anyone
and the man will say yes oh my
lord you did allah will say what did
you do with that money he will say
i used to spend on my family and
i used to give in charity allah will
say kadapt you are liar
and the angels will say kadept you are
a liar but you only gave that money
so that
people say fularun jawad such and such is
a generous man and that is exactly what
people said about you
then the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam as abu
hurairah said then the prophet put his hand
on my knee
and he said
will be the very first three who will
be cast into hell on the day of
judgment what was their downfall brothers and
sisters what was their downfall the intention there
was no lack of action don't get me
wrong some of them spending the night in
salah quran other spending his money we love
money the third died he gave the most
precious gift to his lord none of
it was worth anything to allah because the
intention was missing now that i i think
at least i have your
intention with respect to the importance of what
we're about to discuss let us first break
down what is the meaning of this
word class we'll be using it a lot
in this lecture you'll be hearing it a
lot in your life we translate as sincerity
what does this word mean from an arabic
perspective purely from a linguistic perspective
ibn faris the linguist he said in his
book that the three letters the origins of
ha
lam he said the three letters
which is the origins of the word sincerity
he said this means
to purify something or to refine it to
purify something and to refine it so you
take something that you want
there is a skin around it or there
is ore around it there are extras around
it there are impurities so you
purify that matter until you get to the
core of what you want in this case
it is
until you get to the core the essence
the the pulp of what you want
that is ichlas just from an arabic perspective
to purify and to refine something look at
how the quran uses this word
describing milk do you know any drink that
is purer than that they say it is
whiter than milk
or purer than milk allah says there is
a lesson for you in livestock
livestock that comes from excrement between excrement and
blood and between it we give you a
drink
that is that is purified palatable for those
who drink
so allah who described the milk that you
drink from the bodies of those grazing livestock
as being a drink that is
pure refined because it's coming between two areas
of the body that carry filth an area
that carries blood and the other
that carries excrement between them comes this refined
pure milk and you say it is whiter
than milk it's
a miracle from allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala and if
you were to spot a drop of blood
in yora
in your milk or say a drop of
excrement just a drop of excrement in a
barrel of milk you wouldn't accept it it'll
be thrown away
immediately because milk is chalice that's how it
should be it should be khales and similarly
if our deeds have a drop
of insincerity in them they are at risk
they are at risk because allah wants these
do you understand now from an arabic perspective
where this word comes from something that is
pure and something that is
refined now you ask for a definition what
does mean from an islamic perspective
we say sincerity what is sincerity look at
how our scholars have approached this topic i'll
give you maybe two
definitions a hadith transmitter he said
this is
is when your outward and inward behavior are
aligned clear so
what you are doing is representative of what
you have inside of you and what you
have inside of you
represents itself by what you do they are
aligned you're not doing more than what is
inside of you
yeah you're pretending to be a person of
joshua but there is no cushion on your
heart you're pretending to weep in public but
there is no weeping in your heart
so he says what is when you're outward
and inward actions
they are perfectly what they are aligned a
second definition was given by imam ibn al-qayyim
you see they're all revolving around the same
meaning
is when you reach a state where you
don't desire anyone to witness your actions but
allah
and you don't desire any reward from anyone
but him did you get that
is a state where you don't desire anyone
to witness your actions except
allah and you don't desire a reward for
anything you do from other than him
this is generally speaking their brothers and sisters
from a definition perspective
and the question that poses itself here is
why does ichlas have this status
what is it that gives ikhlas this high
and unprecedented and unparalleled attribute and virtue such
that it caused
people before us to pass out and for
their breathing to become irregular what did they
know about ichlas that perhaps we didn't know
i'm going to share with you brothers and
sisters a few points perhaps seven of them
and i don't know which one is more
important than the other the first of them
al-ikhlas dear brothers and sisters
is a cause of erasing sins even the
most major of them
do you have certain doings of yours that
you feel perhaps allah will not forgive certain
things that you would be too shy to
think about let alone speak about let
alone broadcast to people if that person is
you and that person perhaps is me undoubtedly
ichlas is a means of erasing
the most major of sins if a drop
of it touches a person's sins then bid
farewell to those
you're all aware of the famous hadith the
man who had a cod remember the one
who brings allah subhanahu wa the day of
judgment 99 scrolls worth of sins imagine each
one of those scrolls is as
far as you can see 99 of them
this man was a binge sinner i don't
know how he had time to commit
all of it may allah pardon us he
comes to allah with these crimes and they're
about to be weighed against his good deeds
as for his hasanat his good deed they
don't they don't find any then allah will
ask this man
do you deny any of this the man
will say no my lord allah almighty will
say to him
have the angels who are documenting your sins
oppressed you in any way with this he
says no oh my god allah will say
to him do you have any
excuses the man will say no my lord
then allah will say to him however we
will not oppress you you do
have a good deed and then a small
card is presented imagine 99 scrolls as far
as you can see and then a small
card
and it says inside of it that was
his only good deed the statement of
then allah will say go and witness the
weighing of your deeds the man will say
arabi what is the use of this god
i don't need it allah will
say keep it we will not oppress you
on this day what happens they are placed
on the scale now his future is at
stake the
narrator said i either prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
the scrolls of sins
went flying up into the air and the
other side of the scales
the card fell to the ground outweighed everything
the prophet said
there isn't anything that can outweigh the name
of allah so the man was forgiven because
of one
good deed which was now wait wait is
this the whole story
is this the whole story or is there
more to it how is it that this
man could get away with all of those
crimes
no salah no i'm just a shahadah and
he gets away scott free ah look sheikh
islam
he says he says this is the outcome
for someone
who said with with sincerity
he said because we know people who will
commit major sins from the muslims who would
say in dunya but they still go to
hell how
come because the iklas was different so i
ask you my dear brothers my dear sisters
what was it that erased the sins
of this man it wasn't just the shahada
it was the moment of
it ichlah have been a moment in the
night where he really believed in allah and
he said it from the entirety of his
soul
lifetime's worth of sins and that's why the
prostitute who gave water to a thirsty dog
and allah was grateful to her and he
entered her
jannah despite her prostitution he comments on this
he said
he is he said this prostitute woman gave
water
to the dog with pure sincere eman otherwise
we know not every prostitute
who gives water to a dog enters jannah
do you see so we said point number
one ishlas what does it do it dissolves
mountains worth
of say at brothers and sisters that's a
class sincerity number two ichla sincerity
brings you hasanat deeds that you never did
imagine meeting allah with
saj and quran and other noble deeds of
justice and hair and goodness that you never
did you intended it if the
opportunity came and that is why the messenger
sallallahu alaihi wasallam said as muslim narrates on
the authority
of sahaja
truthfulness from his heart allah will give him
the position of martyrs even if he ends
up dying on his bed
brings you that you didn't do but the
opposite is true if you intend a sin
but you can't do it because
finances aren't their looks aren't their contacts aren't
there time of day is not there you
intend to do a sin but you just
don't have the opportunity to do it
careful the same applies and that is why
bukhari and muslim narrate on the authority of
abu bakr
that the messenger when two muslims meet one
another in a
duel to fight carrying their swords the one
who killed and the killer
or the one who is killed and his
killer they're both in hell so the companions
they said we
understand the one who was the one who
killed why he is going to hell but
the one who the one who died
why why did he go to hell he
didn't do anything he said because he was
intending to kill his
brother if he could so he's treated as
if he killed the muslim so this is
point number two ichlas
brings you those deeds that you couldn't do
there was subhanallah an amazing story i read
this is just a quick tangent
a man called amrimulaith he was one of
the muslim army generals in the land of
khorasan and
he died when he died people saw him
in a dream they said to him what
happened when you met allah
how was it when you met allah are
you okay and he said allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala
forgave my sins
because of an intention i had when i
was still alive he said when i was
still alive i once climbed a nearby cliff
and i looked at
my army and i was amazed at their
numbers i was amazed at how equipped they
were and i said in my heart
i wish i could have lived during the
time of the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam to
support him with my men so allah was
grateful for that intention
and he raised all of my sins so
we said what does the class do what
was number one show me ismail from your
notes it is an erasure of sins even
the most major of them second brings you
that you didn't do number three isla's brothers
and sisters amplifies your good deeds or diminishes
them it's the secret ingredient that when it
is added to something it grows in barakah
and science
how many good deeds can we do in
our lives say you do a good deed
the value of it is x then you
plug in this formula called
sincerity that indeed becomes x to the power
of 10 or x to the power of
700 x to the power
of a million depending on how pure your
sincerity is that's a smart investment
he said there may be a small action
but the intention makes it huge and there
may be a huge action but the
intention makes it what intention makes it small
so what are you intending when you
attend a lecture like this what are you
intending when you pray what are you intending
when you recite quran purify it
and watch how allah will reward you in
ways that you and i we don't deserve
you know the famous hadith where the prophet
sallallahu alaihi
wasallam said bukhari and muslim whoever gives a
charity even as small as
a date what is it but for sure
money no alcohol no interest no pornography no
drugs from pure income and allah only accepts
that which is pure what happens if given
a charity
what happens receives that charity in his right
hand
then allah will nurture that good deed he
will nurture that charity he will foster it
the same way you nurture your mary or
animal until that sadaka becomes like a mountain
on the day of judgment
it's an amplifier this is number three is
an amplifier of those good deeds so don't
let your efforts go to waste you're praying
you're fasting you put
them on your hijab how let us purify
the intention you're doing it anyway get the
most the greatest return on investment
number four is a transformer is a transformer
of deeds
and you can take a normal action something
mundane normal neutral like eating drinking
matrimonial relations neutral matters normal matters you pass
it through a class and then it transforms
it into
worship that will please you on the day
of judgement two people may do the same
thing
but they don't use this machine called the
class so one person just eats and drinks
and gets nothing out of it and the
other intelligent one passes it through
sincerity he gives it a good intention it
becomes an investment it becomes material right
you know since antiquity alchemists have been in
their labs toiling away trying to discover this
apparatus that will
transform worthless materials into precious items right you
know to transform rocks into diamonds or stones
into gold right
they've been doing this for years that apparatus
exists alhamdulillah it's called the class the intention
the class
take something normal like sleeping put it through
this apparatus it transforms into something very valuable
on the day of judgement hasanah
good deeds i will save you take you
to jannah and so muhammad sahabi the
and i hope that allah will reward me
for my sleep the same way he will
reward me for my prayer in other words
he is saying that i am
intending to pray at night so my sleep
i hope allah will reward me for every
second of snoring every tossing and turning i
hope allah will
reward me for that sleep because i have
a good intention attached to it which is
what to pray at night
i remember one of my teachers he said
to me when we were still in yemen
studying we were in the house of our
sheikh
and someone knocked on the door so he
said my teacher i went to the door
to open she said to me hold on
a minute what are
you doing i said i'm going to open
the door he said okay sit down then
i'll do it.
so he went to the door he opened
it and he came back he said you
know why i told you to sit down
because you don't have many good intentions
like you just want to open the door
you're going to let this opportunity go to
waste let me tell you what i intended
when i went to open the door well
i intended to
walk towards my brother and assist him so
not keeping standing in the sun i intended
to when i see him smile this is
a sunnah i intended to put my right
hand in his right and this is also
a sunnah i intended to give him the
full islamic
greeting this is also a sunnah i invited
to bring him into my home this is
a sunnah i invited i i intended to
honor
him in the house this is a sunnah
i intended to give him space in the
imagination this is a sunnah he said he
listed around 40 or so intentions
just to open the door right what does
the niya do the knee transforms actions so
when you
sleep when you drink when you're with your
spouse right when you're traveling when you put
on your aftershave brothers
when you comb your hair put a intention
to glorify allah in it somehow and allah
will not let you down make it into
an investment in your don't
let any second of your short life go
to waste it is a transformer this is
number one
number five number four another one of the
reasons why uh the scholars they gave the
topic of the
intention such great paramounts because sincerity it is
the cause of divine
sponsorship of your projects are you doing something
for the religion are you posting things about
islam are you are you preaching are you
are you
writing or what are you doing if not
intended when there is a class allah subhanahu
wa
in his divine self will take it upon
him his divine self to take your project
and to spread it to the four corners
of the world even if all of the
odds are
against you just show him a class he
will do the tough parts ibrahim he called
people ali he saw him
to do hajj from mount abu bays in
the barren desolate empty desert people allah has
instructed you to do
come to mecca no one was there has
allah not conveyed the message why because
when you say the name of a compilation
of hadith what name do you think of
what name do you think of imam malik
do you think of any other name we
think of malik he authored the moapa
or he compiled the malata of hadith did
you know dear brothers and sisters that during
the time of imam malik there were many
moabs
there were many similar compilations of hadith with
that name so people came to malik and
they were
like why are you troubling yourself this has
been done before how is this going to
be novel how is it
going to be any different imam malik he
said show me something that's been authored that's
ama
they said here's a moapa so he looked
at it for a moment he closed he
put it aside he said to
them listen you will soon find out which
of these books
were intended for allah you will find out
the narrator said
it was as if those books were just
thrown in a well we don't know of
them when you say mulatta you don't think
of
the mawata of ibn abi that exists or
the mawata of ibnubab that exists may allah
except from them you think malik you
don't think anyone else why we think it's
a class and in another narration he said
to them
what is intended for allah will remain and
muhammad
don't get too caught up with those uh
retweets and those shares and that huge exposure
and coverage means nothing it's
a matter of time it's like a frankenstein
that's connected to a life support machine it
looks big and strong and tough you
switch off the machine it's dead that is
the project of a muslim when it is
not mixed with a glass
it will it's bound to fail sooner or
later so it's it's a what
it's a cause it's a cause of divine
sponsorship allah will take your project and carry
it send it to the world if we
are sincere in what we do
the penultimate one i wanted to share with
you is also al-ikhlas brothers and sisters is
a means of your is your savior from
your worldly
stresses are there things that keep you up
at night do you have anxieties that bother
you do you have financial stress is your
islam not where you want it to be
is there anything in dunya that's bothering you
in any way is a means of alleviating
your stresses
in dunya before the hereafter look at the
story of aikid
he spent a lifetime fighting against allah and
his messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam till the last
hour when mecca had fallen to the muslims
climate
was still fighting against the prophet salallahu he
was a warrior but a stubborn man indeed
and when he heard that mecca had fallen
to the muslims he couldn't bear living in
arabia anymore he he decided to go towards
yemen and live there his dad abu
jahl had been killed anyway his wife um
had become muslim however he made his way
to the coast his wife
she catches up she said akirima i just
come from the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and he promised me that if you come
to him he will accept your repentance he
will not harm you because the prophet saws
and pardoned all of the meccans all of
the pagans he pardoned them except a few
war criminals he said no they are not
to be pardoned
akrima was one of them so um hakeem
is saying he's just guaranteed your safety and
i have it here in writing he didn't
even look at her
he didn't even look at her and he
got onto the boat and he made his
way to yemen so upset that the muslims
had become
victorious and there as they were voyaging mid-sea
the boat began to move and the waves
were like canopies and death was now
imminent akima began to mata shiviki prayers prayers
calling upon the idols
so the captain said to him meaning single
out your worship for allah be sincere
during this moment nothing will save you by
sincerity subhanallah at that moment he said it
was like as if the blinkers of arrogance
had just been lifted from me and i
realized that i was just resisting the truth
he said
i'm just running away from the truth he
said oh allah if you save me i
will go to the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam and i will pledge allegiance to
him allah saved him allah saved him and
he went back
and he crossed into mecca he pledged allegiance
with the prophet saws and he said part
of my repentance is that every battle you
fight i will be
with you he did this fighting courageously alongside
of the muslims till he got to the
battle of
yarmouk and he was found breathing his last
during the battle and there was three of
them who were breathing their last and
hadith and they brought water for akrima to
drink something before he dies he said i
think my brother needs it more than we
give it to him so they went to
uh the other he said no i think
my my brother
needs it more they gave it to him
he said no i think acrimac needs it
more they brought it back to agreement he
just died they went to the second and
he just died
and they went to the third and his
soul had left him as well what saved
him brothers what saved him
what brought back the wife of aklima because
she said to him if you don't become
a muslim i'm finished with you what brought
back his wife
what saved him from the sea what brought
him islam what gave him martyrdom sincerity
it's a savior from your worldly stresses allah
supports the sincere ones in dunya before the
hereafter lastly this is the
seventh one i promised you is our savior
in the hereafter when you will hear the
announcement
call allah allah said on the day of
judgment this day
the truthfulness of the truthful ones will be
benefited by it that is the day
the people of the class will shine who
was the famous worshiper of iraq of
baghdad scholar and worshiper spent his whole life
reminding and teaching about allah
when he died people saw him in a
dream and they said to him what did
allah almighty do to you
how was your standing before allah what happened
he said
he said all of those fancy expressions we
used to say have disappeared and all of
those complicated words have
gone and all of those sciences we used
to teach have disappeared and nothing benefited us
on this day
other than a few units of prayer that
we used to pray at night all boiled
down to a few actions of
worship that were done with ichlas and that
is what will save people on the day
of judgement the people of isla abdullahi ibn
generous man he was known for his generosity
in fact he's from the tribe of tame
and the
people of tribe of tame produced many notable
people in islam and india he was a
jahili man a pre-islamic man but he was
known for his generosity he gave
things like he didn't fear death but he
died before the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
became a prophet and our mother aisha she
said to the prophet saw i sent them
that you know abdullahim was a very generous
man so
good with the guests the whole of arabia
knew about him what's his outcome would he
enter gender he said to her no
why he said because not once in his
life did he ever
say my lord forgive my sins on the
day of judgment he wasn't muchless so iklas
is a means of saving people on
your mind coming towards the end of the
lecture the brothers and sisters
and a a question that poses itself of
course is how do myself how do we
us as a group
work towards ichlas because it's a work in
progress for every one of us
and it is possible to attain it it's
not out of reach i tell you what
is impossible
what is impossible is for a person's salvation
to be hinged upon iklas and then allah
makes it impossible to attain
some sometimes the way a class is discussed
it makes you think my days i can
i can never be a mukhlas i can
never be sincere
it's too hard i say to you no
that's impossible hold on a minute because we've
just understood that safety on the day of
judgement is
pending upon the so how can iklas be
impossible there's no safety without it no there
are ways to get to iklas and
allah subhanahu ta'ala will pardon our inevitable shortcomings
and i will share with myself and then
you a few uh pathways
for those who wish to work on their
iklas the first of them dear brothers and
sisters is remember the favor of allah
upon you if you feel you have insincerity
if you feel you are showing off when
reciting quran you fear that people are praising
you for being a practicing muslim and
you're being praised and you just don't know
you're showing off maybe remember the favor of
allah upon you that will usually quieten the
screams of
showing off why you say to yourself who
guided me to islam who inspired me to
worship him
why me from all others others who are
far more intelligent than me far smarter than
me better grades than me better access to
knowledge than
me how come allah chose me to worship
him over others how is it that i
find it easy to stay away from sins
that my neighbor is
falling prey to every other day that's the
favor of allah upon you that's not your
intelligence that's allah's favor and he can pull
it away at
any moment allah said they they think it's
a favor upon you or prophet that they've
become
muslims say to them it's not a favor
upon me that you've become muslims
upon you that he has guided you to
faith if you are truthful remember he chose
you from the masses this is a humbling
reality if it wasn't for you or allah
we would
not be guided we would not give in
charity and we would not have prayed this
is number one remember allah's favor upon you
number two remember the insignificance of people remember
the insignificance of people this helps you manage
the screams and
the demands of showing off who are people
are people
for the sake of whom you are risking
your hereafter that you're trying to impress him
or her or them
who are people and what are people are
they worth it look at man when he's
hungry how does he behave
or when he is thirsty vulnerable i show
off for him look at man when he
runs out of his house and he's not
wearing he's
unclothed for one reason or another i show
up for him look at man how he
behaves when he's ill
or when he hasn't had matrimonial relations for
x number of days how some people behave
we show up for these weak beings who
are
people and what are people or he becomes
poor or when he becomes rich when they
love you people they praise
you and they exaggerate and when they hate
you they despise you they swear at you
they exaggerate these are the people we're trying
to show up
for who are people and then when they
die look at that person that you intended
their pleasure
if you are unaware of his death don't
worry the neighbors will tell you because of
the stench of that corpse and these are
the people we want to show
up for who are people man is created
from a despised fluid our origins is semen
a despised fluid sperm
yeah if you were to go out of
your house and some of it is still
on your clothes you'd be so embarrassed if
someone was to see it
the spy is fluid that's what you and
i were made out of what is there
to show off about and how are we
intending to impress people that's the origins
of them kings and princes presidents despised floyd
one of the governors of the muslim provinces
was seen walking with arrogance you know the
strut you know the billionaire's walk
so a man called said to him you
don't walk like that allah doesn't like that
type of walk the man said to him
do you know who i am he said
oh i know exactly who you are
you are the one who started off as
a despised fluid semen and you're going to
end up as a rotten corpse and between
those two phases you carry all sorts of
feces and excrement inside of your stomach that's
how you that's that's who you are
so the narrator said he stopped walking with
arrogance after hearing that subhanallah so remember the
favor of allah upon you
step number one number two remember the insignificance
of people it's not worth it losing even
if he is the potential
father-in-law number three the third way is perhaps
one of the most effective
hide as many of your good deeds as
you can keep them away from the eyes
of man
the best antidote for for riya showing off
is hiding them fight them hide your deeds
our predecessors were so upset when people discovered
something good that they did or were doing
hide them such that if you find yourself
weeping
in public you think alhamdulillah it's okay i
hope i'm not showing off because i've trained
myself to do that by myself
but if you only ever weep in public
you only ever pray in public you only
ever uh remember allah in public but at
home is just binge netflixing you've got
something to worry about here's a mentality assume
that your public actions don't count
extreme scenario right assume your public acts of
worship don't count on their daily judgment it's
only what
you do in private then you start measuring
what you do in public versus what you
do in private on my days it's scary
now
right and that's why when a man said
to her man my hypocrite to the prophet
saw i said name me as one of
the hypocrites i know you have
information of this said to him do you
pray when you are alone
and do you ask allah to forgive you
when you commit a sin the man said
do you pray when you are alone that's
number one huh number three
hide your deeds number four remember the consequences
of showing off we've spoke about it abundantly
it's a form of shirk associating partners with
allah good deeds will not count on the
day of judgment good deeds will diminish in
size allah will remove
ease from your from your life remember whoever
does something to be seen by
people allah will expose him and whoever does
something to be heard by people allah will
expose him as a consequence remember the consequences
of showing off
this will also quiet the demands that our
nafs gives us to show off our deeds
this is number ish number five stay away
from fame if you can brothers sisters
stay away from fame i know that goes
against everything we're told nowadays about make yourself
known and believe in yourself and go out
and show them what you're made of i
know no sorry we subscribe to a different
ethos we don't like fame
and if it comes to us it's a
necessary evil and we try to manage it
we don't search for fame.
he said not true to allah is a
person who loves fame not true to allah
he is a person who
loves fame ibrahim adam beautiful words ibrahimovic was
a famous man once he came into a
city and
people heard that the great imam ibrahimovic has
arrived and that he's now in this particular
garden so they went into the garden looking
for ibrahim
and he was there he doesn't want to
be known so they were like where is
ibrahim they're going around the circles where
where is ibrahimovic so he joined the crowd
saying where is ibrahimovic where where is ibrahimovic
yeah they weren't into book signings and
all that stuff yeah with all due respect
running away from fame number six dua i'm
going to teach you
eduard brothers and sisters try to learn this
one if you can prophet salallahu
i s you to protect me from associating
partners with you whilst i know
and i ask you to forgive me for
what i don't know allah
lastly remember brothers and sisters don't give up
isn't about removing insincerity from
your heart forever and eliminating it we can't
do that yeah it's impossible forget it it's
about managing it
and realizing it's an ongoing struggle it's a
battle that in of itself is a sign
of sincerity that you're scared of it bothers
you
and that's why al-junaid he said the one
who is sincere his heart changes
around 40 times a day keeps changing intentions
but
is in one state for 40 years did
you get that so the sincere one he
keeps changing 40 times a day the
insincere on the show off he's in one
type he's in one state for 40 years
doesn't care nothing to fight he's just a
show off he doesn't care
so don't give up these are seven things
to think about brothers and sisters on the
way to islas who's been recording
the time of this lecture how long have
we been going on for 50
58 minutes tell us so we will stop
here i wanted to really conclude by speaking
about some examples
of the people of sincerity from our heritage
examples from hadith and from the tabi
and from our contemporaries but the lecture will
be too long so we will stop here
and we will find a different way to
disseminate this information if allah
gives this life allah